# Final Project-Alsarraf: Adjustable Sound FX
 
## Project Goal/Description

This project is aimed at people with recorded audio that is facing various normal issues such as loudness or consistent background noise. My original motivation for such a project was that during a gaming or podcast session, the audio that was recorded in the session is often affected by some type of audio issue. Audio issues can be fixable before the recording even happens, but in certain situations when moving setups or rooms, audio quality tends to fall behind. Therefore, I created this project to have a quick and accessible program that can modify audio and preserve old, working settings.

## Usage

From the directory of this project, do the following command:

    $ python3 main.py

Any audio files generated by the program will be put into its own respective sub-directory within the main project directory. A history of all the audio processes that was done through this program is accessible via the main menu of the program.

## Unit Testing

I tried to make my project as modular as it possibly can be. I would pick singular files and test their functionality as a stand-alone, dependent file. When testing is done, I would integrate the functionality of the tested file with the rest of the project, and then test the entire project altogether. 

## Project Progress and Analysis

 I faced various challenges during the development of this project. I have more than double the lines of code that is present in this repository sitting on my local machine, but unfourtantly, the written code does not work as intended. I didn't have a clear vision of what to focus on at the start; and most importantly, I did not have a good estimate of the difficulty of the effects that I wanted to implement. For example, noise gating keyboard sounds from an audio clip was extremely difficult to implement. The difficulty in itself was not a problem as much as me shifting gears towards something else when my first initial plan fails. I usually never encounter such issues when developing projects, but due to the fact that I'm new to audio, I kept changing plans whenever something failed to work out as intended.

With that being said, I believe that I learned a lot about audio in general while developing this project. Despite not being able to implement all of my goals for this project, I believe that I gained very valuable insight into how audio work in my study field. I deeply wish that I had more time for this project, as I think developing audio-related projects is somethinng that I found to be way more interesting than what I initially had in mind.

## Future Vision

My ultimate goal for this project is to be able to automate my sound processing process. I will be taking a Machine Learning class next fall, and it would be interesting to see how I can integrate parts of Machine Learning concepts into this project. I want to be able to give this project to few friends of mine, and they would be able to generate improved audio clips from their recordings without tinkering with audio settings (or even have an understanding of what is going on). 
